README.md, before:

 # LIFE SAVER
 ## About the Quiz

<img width="189" alt="logo" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171126102-abf63b8f-eaf3-4964-878c-67e563cb7ea9.png">

This Life Saver quiz that educates user on what to do when they witness someone collaspe and is unresponsive and not breathing. Without immediate treatment or medical attention, the person will die. If you see someone having a cardiac arrest, phone 999 immediately and start CPR.

# Table of Contents
- [Ux](#ux)
- [Design](#design)
- [Structure](#structure)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Credit](#credit)


# UX
## User Goals
- Get the user to learn the sequential steps needed to help someone who is having a cardiac arrest in public e.g train station, supermaket etc
- Get the user to understand that cardiac arrest can happen anywhere and at anytime and that everyone should know how to perform CPR

## User Stories
- I want the user to feel equipped and informed on what steps to take when they witness someone unconcious in public.
- I want the user to see their progress as they take the quiz.
- I expect the user to complete the game and watch the video at the end. There is no fail in the game, its either pass or quit. A wrong answer will restart the game and give users an opportunity to play again.

## Requirements
- A mobile device or computer that has connection to the internet

# Design

## Colours
- I have used [Colours.co](https://coolors.co/) to create a good contrast on the page as well as choosing appopriate colour palette.
- The predominant colours used are red and white with blue being used as an assent colour when buttons and some elements are hovered upon.

## Fonts
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) was used to obtain text font that best fit the website. Oswald and Lato were employed for this purpose.

## Icons
- The two font used in the site was supplied from [Font Awesome library](https://fontawesome.com/). One font was for the logo and the second was for the footer.

# Structure

## Welcome Screen
<img width="961" alt="Quiz Homepage" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171398132-c23f578a-b2fd-4bab-8a23-2a7d5d221045.png">

- The welcome screen display instuctions needed for the quiz as well as allow players to input a username and proceed with the quiz.

## Header
![Header of Quiz page](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171513451-06b278f7-0ab0-46eb-886b-b20f295c2ed1.png)

## Question screen
<img width="935" alt="Quiz page with highlighted answer button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171407194-1d9408bf-d88f-49da-b6fc-d33d8a19235d.png">

- The question screen thank the user for choosing to play and displays a question with two options. An option turns to blue when hovered upon.
- Clicking the correct option automatially sends the user to the next question

<img width="974" alt="final answer with submit button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171507071-349ddd0f-7df7-4ff9-88c3-2e9f79cd8a38.png">

- An alert is displayed that the will restart if the wrong option is clicked. Thus all question must be answered correctly to finsh the game-quiz.

<img width="916" alt="Highlighted wrong answer button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171507050-ae4f1e89-2377-471b-899d-1d56f54fc1ac.png">


## End of quiz video/ Summary of actions
<img width="948" alt="Final page after submittion" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171504360-4d8e1cd5-9caf-4443-9f6f-c9a2512598dc.png">

- On clicking the submit button after the last question, a video section is shown to describe the actions of user. This video is obtained from the [UK Resusitaion Council](https://www.resus.org.uk/watch)

## Footer Section
![Footer ](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171408493-d270f593-0f87-44b6-a313-68e4f520e5e3.png)
- The footer section has an icon which was obtained from [Font Awesome library](https://fontawesome.com/) that links to [the UK Resusitation Council website](https://www.resus.org.uk/watch)

# Wireframes

<img width="465" alt="Wireframe1" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171409387-f54e614a-aaa6-4fd3-835e-993dae3653a4.png">

<img width="240" alt="wireframe2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171409413-b14234fc-597a-4d28-99b6-6172e71f9df4.png">

- [Balsamiq wireframe](https://balsamiq.com) was used to plan and sketch the website layout.

## [back to top](#ux)

# Technologies Used

## Languages
 - [HTML](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/)
 - [CSS](https://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/Overview.en.html)
 - [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com/)

 ## Libraries & Framework
 - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
 - [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

 ## Tools & Libraries
 - [GitHub](https://github.com/)
 - [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/)
 - [Balsamic](https://balsamiq.com/)
 - [W3C HTML Validator Service](https://validator.w3.org/)
 - [W3C CSS Validator Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
 - [JSHint](https://jshint.com/)
 - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/)

 # Testing

 ## W3 HTML Validation

<img width="506" alt="HTML validation for index page" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171505585-657112ed-56fc-4067-af18-0cf76db04360.png">

<img width="468" alt="HTML Validation for Quiz page" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171505606-5c214ffa-dde5-4a27-a110-f77c3970c098.png">

 - No errors were detected on HTML Validator when both the index page and gamequiz page were run on the validator site

 ## W3 CSS Validation

 <img width="655" alt="CSS Validator" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171505991-a20376e9-9696-4fdb-8fd6-d3ebdf93c51f.png">

 - No error were detected on CSS Validator testing.

 ## JSHINT

<img width="927" alt="JSHint" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171506005-2659b618-f435-4baa-859d-61a502de32eb.png">

<img width="967" alt="JSHint2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171506016-2037dea8-57f7-4bd3-84e2-5e530ba97ca1.png">

 - The website has two javaScript files. Synthax errors detected on JSHint were fixed. 

 ## Lighthouse Testing

 <img width="1267" alt="Lighthouse" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171509255-90a909ae-87dd-4c54-93c1-5e1363c61521.png">

 - The website score high on all indexes; performace, SEO, assesibility and best practices.

 # Deployment

 # Credit

 I appreciate the following individuals and platform for their help and support with this project

 - Martina Terlevic - Code Institute Mentor.
 - Antonio Bello - Software developer, Spotify
 - [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/) - Online resource
 - [Coding ninjas](https://www.codingninjas.com/) - for quiz template ideas
 - [Font Awesome library](https://fontawesome.com/) - for their lovely icons
 - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
 - [Colours.co](https://coolors.co/)
 - [Balsamiq wireframe](https://balsamiq.com)

Commit message:

Deploy site to github pages

README.md, after:

 # LIFE SAVER
 ## About the Quiz

 <img width="994" alt="Screenshot 2022-06-02 at 23 21 32" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171748214-f0fa4b39-4ced-43ae-aba9-1ac6cb801a54.png">


Life Saver is a quiz that educates user on what to do when they witness a cardiac arrest. A cardiac arrest is when a person's heart stops pumping blood around their body and they stop breathing. Without immediate treatment or medical attention, the person will die. If you see someone having a cardiac arrest, phone 999 immediately and start CPR.

# Table of Contents
- [Ux](#ux)
- [Design](#design)
- [Structure](#structure)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Credit](#credit)


# UX
## User Goals
- Get the user to learn the sequential steps needed to help someone who is having a cardiac arrest in public e.g train station, supermaket etc
- Get the user to understand that cardiac arrest can happen anywhere and at anytime and that everyone should know how to perform CPR

## User Stories
- I want the user to feel equipped and informed on what steps to take when they witness someone unconcious in public.
- I want the user to see their progress as they take the quiz.
- I expect the user to complete the game and watch the video at the end. There is no fail in the game, its either pass or quit. A wrong answer will restart the game and give users an opportunity to play again.

## Requirements
- A mobile device or computer that has connection to the internet

# Design

## Colours
- I have used [Colours.co](https://coolors.co/) to create a good contrast on the page as well as choosing appopriate colour palette.
- The predominant colours used are red (#FF331F) and white (#fbfbff) with blue (#657ed4) being used as an assent colour when buttons and some elements are hovered upon.

## Fonts
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) was used to obtain text font that best fit the website. Oswald and Lato were employed for this purpose.

## Icons and logo
- The two font used in the site was supplied from [Font Awesome library](https://fontawesome.com/). One font was for the logo and the second was for the footer.

<img width="189" alt="logo" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171126102-abf63b8f-eaf3-4964-878c-67e563cb7ea9.png">

# Structure

## Welcome Screen
<img width="961" alt="Quiz Homepage" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171398132-c23f578a-b2fd-4bab-8a23-2a7d5d221045.png">

- The welcome screen display instuctions needed for the quiz as well as allow players to input a username and proceed with the quiz.

## Header
![Header of Quiz page](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171513451-06b278f7-0ab0-46eb-886b-b20f295c2ed1.png)

## Question screen
<img width="935" alt="Quiz page with highlighted answer button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171407194-1d9408bf-d88f-49da-b6fc-d33d8a19235d.png">

- The question screen thank the user for choosing to play and displays a question with two options. An option turns to blue when hovered upon.
- Clicking the correct option automatially sends the user to the next question

<img width="974" alt="final answer with submit button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171507071-349ddd0f-7df7-4ff9-88c3-2e9f79cd8a38.png">

- An alert is displayed that the will restart if the wrong option is clicked. Thus all question must be answered correctly to finsh the game-quiz.

<img width="916" alt="Highlighted wrong answer button" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171507050-ae4f1e89-2377-471b-899d-1d56f54fc1ac.png">


## End of quiz video/ Summary of actions
<img width="948" alt="Final page after submittion" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171504360-4d8e1cd5-9caf-4443-9f6f-c9a2512598dc.png">

- On clicking the submit button after the last question, a video section is shown to describe the actions of user. This video is obtained from the [UK Resusitaion Council](https://www.resus.org.uk/watch)

## Footer Section
![Footer ](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171408493-d270f593-0f87-44b6-a313-68e4f520e5e3.png)
- The footer section has an icon which was obtained from [Font Awesome library](https://fontawesome.com/) that links to [the UK Resusitation Council website](https://www.resus.org.uk/watch)

# Wireframes

<img width="465" alt="Wireframe1" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171409387-f54e614a-aaa6-4fd3-835e-993dae3653a4.png">

<img width="240" alt="wireframe2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171409413-b14234fc-597a-4d28-99b6-6172e71f9df4.png">

- [Balsamiq wireframe](https://balsamiq.com) was used to plan and sketch the website layout.

## [back to top](#about-the-quiz)

# Technologies Used

## Languages
 - [HTML](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/)
 - [CSS](https://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/Overview.en.html)
 - [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com/)

 ## Libraries & Framework
 - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
 - [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

 ## Tools & Libraries
 - [GitHub](https://github.com/)
 - [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/)
 - [Balsamic](https://balsamiq.com/)
 - [W3C HTML Validator Service](https://validator.w3.org/)
 - [W3C CSS Validator Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
 - [JSHint](https://jshint.com/)
 - [Coolors](https://coolors.co/)

 # Testing

 ## W3 HTML Validation

<img width="506" alt="HTML validation for index page" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171505585-657112ed-56fc-4067-af18-0cf76db04360.png">

<img width="468" alt="HTML Validation for Quiz page" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171505606-5c214ffa-dde5-4a27-a110-f77c3970c098.png">

 - No errors were detected on HTML Validator when both the index page and gamequiz page were run on the validator site

 ## W3 CSS Validation

 <img width="655" alt="CSS Validator" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171505991-a20376e9-9696-4fdb-8fd6-d3ebdf93c51f.png">

 - No error were detected on CSS Validator testing.

 ## JSHINT

<img width="927" alt="JSHint" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171506005-2659b618-f435-4baa-859d-61a502de32eb.png">

<img width="967" alt="JSHint2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171506016-2037dea8-57f7-4bd3-84e2-5e530ba97ca1.png">

 - The website has two javaScript files. Synthax errors detected on JSHint were fixed. 

 ## Lighthouse Testing

 <img width="1267" alt="Lighthouse" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69070044/171509255-90a909ae-87dd-4c54-93c1-5e1363c61521.png">

 - The website score high on all indexes; performace, SEO, assesibility and best practices.

 # Deployment

 - The website was deployed via github pages
 ## Deployment steps
 - 1. Code institute template was used to create this project.
 - 2. A suitable name (Lifesaver) was chosen for this project.
 - 3. After completing most of the work, I navigated to the repository setting in github
 - 4. Then I clicked on the Github page section.
 - 5. Afterward, I click on the source drop down menu and choose 'main'
 - 6. Finally clicking on save generated the live link to the site (https://gozygreg.github.io/lifesaver/)


 # Credit

 I appreciate the following individuals and platform for their help and support with this project

 - Martina Terlevic - Code Institute Mentor.
 - Antonio Bello - Software developer, Spotify
 - [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/) - Online resource
 - [Coding ninjas](https://www.codingninjas.com/) - for quiz template ideas
 - [Font Awesome library](https://fontawesome.com/) - for their lovely icons
 - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
 - [Colours.co](https://coolors.co/)
 - [Balsamiq wireframe](https://balsamiq.com)

 [Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
